# clusperin
Tool to cluster proteins (Fasta format).

## Getting Started

**clusperin** is a crucial part of a major set of packages: 

* keggreader
* keggimporter
* anendbtofasta
* blasperin
* clusteringloader

But to run **clusperin** you only need a set of Fasta files with protein sequences and the proper script parameters.

Those Fasta files is expected to be generated by **anendbtofasta** package, but you can generate then in any way you want.

They have to follow the rules below:

* Each file is a set of proteins from a single EC number.
* Example of a file name:

```
EC_2.3.4.5.fasta
```

**Notice** the file format: 'EC\_' **plus** your EC number **plus** '.fasta'


## Metadata File

**clusperin** will **generate automaticaly** a metadata file after finished its execution.

That's a crucial file to identify the clustering process and it'll be used as a source of information to other packages that imports clustering results.

The file name is 'clustering_metadata', it's stored at the clustering results directory, and an example can be seen below:

```
label = the_name_of_the_process 
author = who executed the process 
cutoff = 300
clusters = /var/clustering/clusters/
fasta_origin = /var/clustering/
software = blast
date = 2017-06-29 14:39:49.578512
```


## Installing

* Download (and extract) the zip file from this repository or clone it using **git** command.
* Go to the opened directory.
* Run:

```
python setup.py install
```

* Installation is done.


## Run clusperin

* Simply type **clusperin** in your console.

**Example:**

```
clusperin --source-directory=/var/clustering/ \
          --destination-directory=/var/clustering/clusters/ \
          --label=any_name_you_want \
          --author=your_name \
          --cutoff=300 \ 
          --log-file=/var/log/clusperin.log
```

## Explaining the parameters

* --source-directory

Where are your Fasta files.

* --destination-directory

Where to store the clustering result files.

* --label

A name to identify your clustering process.

* --author

A name to identify who executed the clustering process.

* --cutoff

The value used to group proteins.

* --log-file

Full path the a log file. That's necessary because the process can take several hours/days depending on the amount of files.





